copy files to remote hosts.
Um,
in this lesson,
we are actually going to write a script.
This is also ah,
four loops script.
Very useful.
Ah,
I used it many times,
and I know a lot of my friends who are in I T or in Lenox write scripts that,
actually,
copies filed from one location to multiple servers.
You could copy files from one system and to second system to the third system using
commands like FTP or sftp.
But if you have multiple systems,
you don't want to do it one by one by one.
So this is a very short lesson.
I wanted to show you how you could copy files and how you could use four Luke commands for
that.
And if you remember exactly how for her loop is done,
I'm sure by now you are exporting for loop,
and you should be able to do yourself.
If not,
just follow me,
and I will go into my machine and clear the screen.
I will name this script as a copy.
Miles so remote and you know what we have to do then,
uh,
date you a 8 2020 um,
description.
This script Well,
copy falls to remote.
Hey,
guys,
I missed one thing.
What is that?
Yes,
it's very important.
Because if you are writing a script and you have multiple system engineers administrator in
your department,
they also writing the script.
Then this is the easiest way to find out who wrote that.
And they would simply get in touch with you and ask you Hey,
the script is not doing what we wanted to do.
Can you modified?
Okay,
so now four,
I pick I variable again.
N Now you put the host name or the i p.
Address of the machine that you want to transfer it.
Um Just says push just for giggles.
I'll put the host name,
Let's say,
um red hat one red hat to red hat three.
Read ahead.
Four or as many servers that you want to transfer over.
You could do that.
So you know that now you're putting four red hat servers into a container and the container
name is I Okay,
it is into container.
What do you want to do?
He wanted to do a CP off.
Ah,
file.
Right.
You want to transfer the partner?
So the file name is like some file.
I don't know which.
Because this script that I'm writing,
it's just a lab.
A test script.
I am not going to test or run the script because I do not have multiple than X servers in
my lab environment.
If you do have it,
then you could go in and actually change the host name right here,
which is right Had 123 to the actual host name that you have and to the actual some file to
the actual file.
Okay,
so you're a CP.
Some file wear to I eyes what isa container and the container has what container has all
your host names and colon slash.
Let's say you want to transfer to 10 and this is right here is just a standard way right
here,
starting from calling two if you want to transfer while,
and I'm sure you know that.
And so this is actually,
as you know,
I let me repeat it again.
This is going to copy some files to read,
had 123 and four.
And if you have multiple files,
you could also what you could do.
You could put all those files in Ah,
file.
Create a file.
That's a,
um,
ABC and put all the list.
Let's see if you have 100 servers,
then you don't want to write those hundreds over right here.
And what do you have to do?
You have to specify.
Ah,
variable.
That would do a That's it is a variable hat.
Their files.
If the file is slash home,
I have solved ABC.
You catting their file now you're telling it for while in dollar a,
then you do same thing again.
So now you don't have to special all your host names into the script.
You could specify all your hosting Minto file and then you tell the script to go and read
their fall and execute that command against.
That's pretty much it about this lesson.
Ah,
if you actually have multiple hosts that you could try on,
go ahead and try,
and I'm sure your war